README.md, before:

# Logistics Wizard Demo

This project is designed with a bunch of awesome new front-end technologies, all on top of a configurable, feature-rich webpack build system that's already setup to provide hot reloading, CSS modules with Sass support, unit testing, code coverage reports, bundle splitting, and a whole lot more, while providing amazing developer tools such as Redux CLI (a generator), Redux devtools (Chrome extension), and Storybook for visually developing and testing components.

## Table of Contents
1. [Features](#features)
1. [Requirements](#requirements)
1. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
1. [Application Structure](#application-structure)
1. [Development](#development)
  1. [Developer Tools](#developer-tools)
  1. [Redux-cli](#redux-cli)
  1. [Storybook](#storybook)
  1. [Routing](#routing)
1. [Testing](#testing)
1. [Deployment](#deployment)
1. [Build System](#build-system)
  1. [Configuration](#configuration)
  1. [Root Resolve](#root-resolve)
  1. [Globals](#globals)
  1. [Styles](#styles)
  1. [Server](#server)
  1. [Production Optimization](#production-optimization)
1. [Learning Resources](#learning-resources)

## Features
* [react](https://github.com/facebook/react)
* [redux](https://github.com/rackt/redux)
* [redux-saga](https://github.com/yelouafi/redux-saga)
* [react-router](https://github.com/rackt/react-router)
* [react-router-redux](https://github.com/rackt/react-router-redux)
* [react-storybook](https://github.com/kadirahq/react-storybook)
* [webpack](https://github.com/webpack/webpack)
* [babel](https://github.com/babel/babel)
* [ava](https://github.com/avajs/ava)
* [eslint](http://eslint.org)

## Requirements
* node `^4.2.0`
* npm `^3.0.0`

## Getting Started

After confirming that your development environment meets the specified [requirements](#requirements), you can create a new project based on `logistics-wizard` in one of two ways:

### Install from source

First, clone or download:

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:IBM-Bluemix/logistics-wizard.git
// or
$ wget -O logistics-wizard.zip https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/logistics-wizard/archive/master.zip
$ unzip logistics-wizard.zip
```

Then, rename to your project name and change into the directory:

```bash
$ mv logistics-wizard <my-project-name>
$ cd <my-project-name>
```

### Install dependencies, and check to see it works

```bash
$ npm install                   # Install project dependencies
$ npm start                     # Compile and launch
```
If everything works, you should see the following:

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/zR7VRG6.png?2" />

While developing, you will probably rely mostly on `npm start`; however, there are additional scripts at your disposal:

|`npm run <script>`|Description|
|------------------|-----------|
|`start`|Serves your app at `localhost:3000`. HMR will be enabled in development.|
|`storybook`|Opens React Storybook at `localhost:9001`.|
|`compile`|Compiles the application to disk (`~/dist` by default).|
|`dev`|Same as `npm start`, but enables nodemon for the server as well.|
|`dev:no-debug`|Same as `npm run dev` but disables devtool instrumentation.|
|`test`|Runs unit tests with Ava and generates a coverage report.|
|`test:dev`|Runs Ava and watches for changes to re-run tests; does not generate coverage reports.|
|`test:dev-verbose`|Same as test:dev but with verbose test output.|
|`check-coverage`|Returns true or false based on successful code coverage|
|`deploy`|Runs linter, tests, and then, on success, compiles your application to disk.|
|`deploy:dev`|Same as `deploy` but overrides `NODE_ENV` to "development".|
|`deploy:prod`|Same as `deploy` but overrides `NODE_ENV` to "production".|
|`lint`|Lint all `.js` files.|
|`lint:fix`|Lint and fix all `.js` files. [Read more on this](http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface.html#fix).|

## Application Structure

The application structure presented in this project is **fractal**, where functionality is grouped primarily by feature rather than file type. Please note, however, that this structure is only meant to serve as a guide, it is by no means prescriptive. That said, it aims to represent generally accepted guidelines and patterns for building scalable applications. If you wish to read more about this pattern, please check out this [awesome writeup](https://github.com/davezuko/react-redux-starter-kit/wiki/Fractal-Project-Structure) by [Justin Greenberg](https://github.com/justingreenberg).

```
.
├── .storybook               # Config and root stories for React Storybook
├── bin                      # Build/Start scripts
├── blueprints               # Blueprint files for redux-cli
├── config                   # Project, build, and test configuration settings
│   └── webpack              # Environment-specific configuration files for webpack
├── server                   # Koa application (uses webpack middleware)
│   └── main.js              # Server application entry point
└── src                      # Application source code
    ├── index.html           # Main HTML page container for app
    ├── main.js              # Application bootstrap and rendering
    ├── components           # Reusable Presentational Components
    ├── containers           # Reusable Container Components
    ├── layouts              # Components that dictate major page structure
    ├── modules              # reducer, action, creators not part of a route
    ├── routes               # Main route definitions and async split points
    │   ├── index.js         # Bootstrap main application routes with store
    │   └── Home             # Fractal route
    │       ├── index.js     # Route definitions and async split points
    │       ├── assets       # Assets required to render components
    │       ├── components   # Presentational React Components
    │       ├── container    # Connect components to actions and store
    │       ├── modules      # Collections of reducers/constants/actions
    │       └── routes **    # Fractal sub-routes (** optional)
    ├── services             # API wrappers
    ├── static               # Static assets (not imported anywhere in source code)
    ├── store                # Redux-specific pieces
    │   ├── createStore.js   # Create and instrument redux store
    │   ├── reducers.js      # Reducer registry and injection
    │   └── sagas.js         # Saga registry and injection
    └── styles               # Application-wide styles (generally settings)
```

## Development

#### Developer Tools

**We recommend using the [Redux DevTools Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/redux-devtools/lmhkpmbekcpmknklioeibfkpmmfibljd).**
Using the chrome extension allows your monitors to run on a separate thread and affords better performance and functionality. It comes with several of the most popular monitors, is easy to configure, filters actions, and doesn’t require installing any packages.

#### `redux-cli`

```bash
npm install redux-cli --save-dev
```
TODO: Describe generating various components and routes with redux-cli

### Routing
We use `react-router` [route definitions](https://github.com/reactjs/react-router/blob/master/docs/API.md#plainroute) (`<route>/index.js`) to define units of logic within our application. See the [application structure](#application-structure) section for more information.

## Storybook
TODO - add some info about storybook

## Testing
To add a unit test, simply create a `.test.js` file anywhere in `~/src`. Ava will pick up on these files automatically. If you are using `redux-cli`, test files should automatically be generated when you create a component or route. If you wish to change test file locations or settings you may do so within the `ava` object in `~/package.json`.

Coverage reports will be compiled to `~/coverage` by default. If you wish to change what reporters are used and where reports are compiled, you can do so by modifying the `nyc` object in `~/package.json`.

## Deployment
Out of the box, this starter kit is deployable by serving the `~/dist` folder generated by `npm run deploy` (make sure to specify your target `NODE_ENV` as well).

### Static Deployments
Whether you are serving the application via node or a web server such as nginx, make sure to direct incoming routes to the root `~/dist/index.html` file and let react-router take care of the rest. The Koa server that is being used as the dev server can be extended to host the app and serve as an API or whatever else you need, but that's entirely up to you.

### Bluemix
We use the staticfile_buildpack to deploy the client to Bluemix with an nginx web server. In order to override the default nginx.conf provided by the buildpack, we simply copied the provided config from the buildpack repo and added the try_files directive:
```
...
location / {
  root <%= ENV["APP_ROOT"] %>/public;
  + try_files $uri $uri/ /index.html;
  ...
```
**Deploy Instructions**
  1. Manually Install CF and Bluemix CLI *or use homebrew on Mac*:
    ```bash
    brew tap cloudfoundry/tap
    brew install cf-cli
    brew tap caskroom/cask
    brew cask install bluemix-cli
    ```
  1. Connect and Login to Bluemix
  ```bash
  bluemix api https://api.ng.bluemix.net
  bluemix login -u <your username> -o <your org> -s <your space>
  ```
  1. Update the `host` key in `manifest.yml` to whatever you like
  1. From now on, all you have to do is
  ```bash
  cf push
  ```
  1. Visit `<hostname from manifest.yml>.mybluemix.net` to view your running app

## Build System

### Configuration

Default project configuration can be found in `~/config/index.js`. Here you'll be able to redefine your `src` and `dist` directories, adjust compilation settings, tweak your vendor dependencies, and more. For the most part, you should be able to make changes in here **without ever having to touch the actual webpack build configuration**.

If you need environment-specific overrides (useful for dynamically setting API endpoints, for example), you can edit `~/config/environments.js` and define overrides on a per-NODE_ENV basis. There are examples for both `development` and `production`, so use those as guidelines. Here are some common configuration options:

|Key|Description|
|---|-----------|
|`dir_src`|application source code base path|
|`dir_dist`|path to build compiled application to|
|`server_host`|hostname for the Koa server|
|`server_port`|port for the Koa server|
|`compiler_css_modules`|whether or not to enable CSS modules|
|`compiler_devtool`|what type of source-maps to generate (set to `false`/`null` to disable)|
|`compiler_vendor`|packages to separate into to the vendor bundle|


### Root Resolve
Webpack is configured to make use of [resolve.root](http://webpack.github.io/docs/configuration.html#resolve-root), which lets you import local packages as if you were traversing from the root of your `~/src` directory. Here's an example:

```js
// current file: ~/src/views/some/nested/View.js
// What used to be this:
import SomeComponent from '../../../components/SomeComponent'

// Can now be this:
import SomeComponent from 'components/SomeComponent' // Hooray!
```

### Globals

These are global variables available to you anywhere in your source code. If you wish to modify them, they can be found as the `globals` key in `~/config/index.js`. When adding new globals, make sure you also add them to `~/.eslintrc`.

|Variable|Description|
|---|---|
|`process.env.NODE_ENV`|the active `NODE_ENV` when the build started|
|`__DEV__`|True when `process.env.NODE_ENV` is `development`|
|`__PROD__`|True when `process.env.NODE_ENV` is `production`|
|`__TEST__`|True when `process.env.NODE_ENV` is `test`|
|`__DEBUG__`|True when `process.env.NODE_ENV` is `development` and cli arg `--no_debug` is not set (`npm run dev:no-debug`)|
|`__BASENAME__`|[history basename option](https://github.com/rackt/history/blob/master/docs/BasenameSupport.md)|

### Styles

Both `.scss` and `.css` file extensions are supported out of the box and are configured to use [CSS Modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules). After being imported, styles will be processed with [PostCSS](https://github.com/postcss/postcss) for minification and autoprefixing, and will be extracted to a `.css` file during production builds.

### Server

This starter kit comes packaged with an Koa server. It's important to note that the sole purpose of this server is to provide `webpack-dev-middleware` and `webpack-hot-middleware` for hot module replacement. Using a custom Koa app in place of [webpack-dev-server](https://github.com/webpack/webpack-dev-server) makes it easier to extend the starter kit to include functionality such as API's, universal rendering, and more -- all without bloating the base boilerplate.

### Production Optimization

Babel is configured to use [babel-plugin-transform-runtime](https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-plugin-transform-runtime) so transforms aren't inlined. Additionally, in production, we use [react-optimize](https://github.com/thejameskyle/babel-react-optimize) to further optimize your React code.

In production, webpack will extract styles to a `.css` file, minify your JavaScript, and perform additional optimizations such as module deduplication.

## Learning Resources

* [Starting out with react-redux-starter-kit](https://suspicious.website/2016/04/29/starting-out-with-react-redux-starter-kit/) is an introduction to the components used in this starter kit with a small example in the end.

Commit message:

Add some config for Travis and Coveralls

README.md, after:

# Logistics Wizard Demo

This project is designed with a bunch of awesome new front-end technologies, all on top of a configurable, feature-rich webpack build system that's already setup to provide hot reloading, CSS modules with Sass support, unit testing, code coverage reports, bundle splitting, and a whole lot more, while providing amazing developer tools such as Redux CLI (a generator), Redux devtools (Chrome extension), and Storybook for visually developing and testing components.

## Table of Contents
1. [Features](#features)
1. [Requirements](#requirements)
1. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
1. [Application Structure](#application-structure)
1. [Development](#development)
  1. [Developer Tools](#developer-tools)
  1. [Redux-cli](#redux-cli)
  1. [Storybook](#storybook)
  1. [Routing](#routing)
1. [Testing](#testing)
1. [Deployment](#deployment)
1. [Build System](#build-system)
  1. [Configuration](#configuration)
  1. [Root Resolve](#root-resolve)
  1. [Globals](#globals)
  1. [Styles](#styles)
  1. [Server](#server)
  1. [Production Optimization](#production-optimization)
1. [Learning Resources](#learning-resources)

## Features
* [react](https://github.com/facebook/react)
* [redux](https://github.com/rackt/redux)
* [redux-saga](https://github.com/yelouafi/redux-saga)
* [react-router](https://github.com/rackt/react-router)
* [react-router-redux](https://github.com/rackt/react-router-redux)
* [react-storybook](https://github.com/kadirahq/react-storybook)
* [webpack](https://github.com/webpack/webpack)
* [babel](https://github.com/babel/babel)
* [ava](https://github.com/avajs/ava)
* [eslint](http://eslint.org)

## Requirements
* node `^4.2.0`
* npm `^3.0.0`

## Getting Started

After confirming that your development environment meets the specified [requirements](#requirements), you can create a new project based on `logistics-wizard` in one of two ways:

### Install from source

First, clone or download:

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:IBM-Bluemix/logistics-wizard.git
// or
$ wget -O logistics-wizard.zip https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/logistics-wizard/archive/master.zip
$ unzip logistics-wizard.zip
```

Then, rename to your project name and change into the directory:

```bash
$ mv logistics-wizard <my-project-name>
$ cd <my-project-name>
```

### Install dependencies, and check to see it works

```bash
$ npm install                   # Install project dependencies
$ npm start                     # Compile and launch
```
If everything works, you should see the following:

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/zR7VRG6.png?2" />

While developing, you will probably rely mostly on `npm start`; however, there are additional scripts at your disposal:

|`npm run <script>`|Description|
|------------------|-----------|
|`start`|Serves your app at `localhost:3000`. HMR will be enabled in development.|
|`storybook`|Opens React Storybook at `localhost:9001`.|
|`compile`|Compiles the application to disk (`~/dist` by default).|
|`dev`|Same as `npm start`, but enables nodemon for the server as well.|
|`dev:no-debug`|Same as `npm run dev` but disables devtool instrumentation.|
|`test`|Runs unit tests with Ava and generates a coverage report.|
|`test:dev`|Runs Ava and watches for changes to re-run tests; does not generate coverage reports.|
|`test:dev-verbose`|Same as test:dev but with verbose test output.|
|`check-coverage`|Returns true or false based on successful code coverage|
|`coveralls`|Pipes lcov.info to coveralls process|
|`deploy`|Runs linter, tests, and then, on success, compiles your application to disk.|
|`deploy:dev`|Same as `deploy` but overrides `NODE_ENV` to "development".|
|`deploy:prod`|Same as `deploy` but overrides `NODE_ENV` to "production".|
|`lint`|Lint all `.js` files.|
|`lint:fix`|Lint and fix all `.js` files. [Read more on this](http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface.html#fix).|

## Application Structure

The application structure presented in this project is **fractal**, where functionality is grouped primarily by feature rather than file type. Please note, however, that this structure is only meant to serve as a guide, it is by no means prescriptive. That said, it aims to represent generally accepted guidelines and patterns for building scalable applications. If you wish to read more about this pattern, please check out this [awesome writeup](https://github.com/davezuko/react-redux-starter-kit/wiki/Fractal-Project-Structure) by [Justin Greenberg](https://github.com/justingreenberg).

```
.
├── .storybook               # Config and root stories for React Storybook
├── bin                      # Build/Start scripts
├── blueprints               # Blueprint files for redux-cli
├── config                   # Project, build, and test configuration settings
│   └── webpack              # Environment-specific configuration files for webpack
├── server                   # Koa application (uses webpack middleware)
│   └── main.js              # Server application entry point
└── src                      # Application source code
    ├── index.html           # Main HTML page container for app
    ├── main.js              # Application bootstrap and rendering
    ├── components           # Reusable Presentational Components
    ├── containers           # Reusable Container Components
    ├── layouts              # Components that dictate major page structure
    ├── modules              # reducer, action, creators not part of a route
    ├── routes               # Main route definitions and async split points
    │   ├── index.js         # Bootstrap main application routes with store
    │   └── Home             # Fractal route
    │       ├── index.js     # Route definitions and async split points
    │       ├── assets       # Assets required to render components
    │       ├── components   # Presentational React Components
    │       ├── container    # Connect components to actions and store
    │       ├── modules      # Collections of reducers/constants/actions
    │       └── routes **    # Fractal sub-routes (** optional)
    ├── services             # API wrappers
    ├── static               # Static assets (not imported anywhere in source code)
    ├── store                # Redux-specific pieces
    │   ├── createStore.js   # Create and instrument redux store
    │   ├── reducers.js      # Reducer registry and injection
    │   └── sagas.js         # Saga registry and injection
    └── styles               # Application-wide styles (generally settings)
```

## Development

#### Developer Tools

**We recommend using the [Redux DevTools Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/redux-devtools/lmhkpmbekcpmknklioeibfkpmmfibljd).**
Using the chrome extension allows your monitors to run on a separate thread and affords better performance and functionality. It comes with several of the most popular monitors, is easy to configure, filters actions, and doesn’t require installing any packages.

#### `redux-cli`

```bash
npm install redux-cli --save-dev
```
TODO: Describe generating various components and routes with redux-cli

### Routing
We use `react-router` [route definitions](https://github.com/reactjs/react-router/blob/master/docs/API.md#plainroute) (`<route>/index.js`) to define units of logic within our application. See the [application structure](#application-structure) section for more information.

## Storybook
TODO - add some info about storybook

## Testing
To add a unit test, simply create a `.test.js` file anywhere in `~/src`. Ava will pick up on these files automatically. If you are using `redux-cli`, test files should automatically be generated when you create a component or route. If you wish to change test file locations or settings you may do so within the `ava` object in `~/package.json`.

Coverage reports will be compiled to `~/coverage` by default. If you wish to change what reporters are used and where reports are compiled, you can do so by modifying the `nyc` object in `~/package.json`.

## Deployment
Out of the box, this project is deployable by serving the `~/dist` folder generated by `npm run deploy` (make sure to specify your target `NODE_ENV` as well).

### Static Deployments
Whether you are serving the application via node or a web server such as nginx, make sure to direct incoming routes to the root `~/dist/index.html` file and let react-router take care of the rest. The Koa server that is being used as the dev server can be extended to host the app and serve as an API or whatever else you need, but that's entirely up to you.

### Bluemix
We use the staticfile_buildpack to deploy the client to Bluemix with an nginx web server. In order to override the default nginx.conf provided by the buildpack, we simply copied the provided config from the buildpack repo and added the try_files directive:
```
...
location / {
  root <%= ENV["APP_ROOT"] %>/public;
  + try_files $uri $uri/ /index.html;
  ...
```
**Deploy Instructions**
  1. Manually Install CF and Bluemix CLI *or use homebrew on Mac*:
    ```bash
    brew tap cloudfoundry/tap
    brew install cf-cli
    brew tap caskroom/cask
    brew cask install bluemix-cli
    ```
  1. Connect and Login to Bluemix
  ```bash
  bluemix api https://api.ng.bluemix.net
  bluemix login -u <your username> -o <your org> -s <your space>
  ```
  1. Update the `host` key in `manifest.yml` to whatever you like
  1. From now on, all you have to do is
  ```bash
  cf push
  ```
  1. Visit `<hostname from manifest.yml>.mybluemix.net` to view your running app

## Build System

### Configuration

Default project configuration can be found in `~/config/index.js`. Here you'll be able to redefine your `src` and `dist` directories, adjust compilation settings, tweak your vendor dependencies, and more. For the most part, you should be able to make changes in here **without ever having to touch the actual webpack build configuration**.

If you need environment-specific overrides (useful for dynamically setting API endpoints, for example), you can edit `~/config/environments.js` and define overrides on a per-NODE_ENV basis. There are examples for both `development` and `production`, so use those as guidelines. Here are some common configuration options:

|Key|Description|
|---|-----------|
|`dir_src`|application source code base path|
|`dir_dist`|path to build compiled application to|
|`server_host`|hostname for the Koa server|
|`server_port`|port for the Koa server|
|`compiler_css_modules`|whether or not to enable CSS modules|
|`compiler_devtool`|what type of source-maps to generate (set to `false`/`null` to disable)|
|`compiler_vendor`|packages to separate into to the vendor bundle|


### Root Resolve
Webpack is configured to make use of [resolve.root](http://webpack.github.io/docs/configuration.html#resolve-root), which lets you import local packages as if you were traversing from the root of your `~/src` directory. Here's an example:

```js
// current file: ~/src/views/some/nested/View.js
// What used to be this:
import SomeComponent from '../../../components/SomeComponent'

// Can now be this, HORRAY!:
import SomeComponent from 'components/SomeComponent'
```

### Globals

These are global variables available to you anywhere in your source code. If you wish to modify them, they can be found as the `globals` key in `~/config/index.js`. When adding new globals, make sure you also add them to `~/.eslintrc`.

|Variable|Description|
|---|---|
|`process.env.NODE_ENV`|the active `NODE_ENV` when the build started|
|`__DEV__`|True when `process.env.NODE_ENV` is `development`|
|`__PROD__`|True when `process.env.NODE_ENV` is `production`|
|`__TEST__`|True when `process.env.NODE_ENV` is `test`|
|`__DEBUG__`|True when `process.env.NODE_ENV` is `development` and cli arg `--no_debug` is not set (`npm run dev:no-debug`)|
|`__BASENAME__`|[history basename option](https://github.com/rackt/history/blob/master/docs/BasenameSupport.md)|

### Styles

Both `.scss` and `.css` file extensions are supported out of the box and are configured to use [CSS Modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules). After being imported, styles will be processed with [PostCSS](https://github.com/postcss/postcss) for minification and autoprefixing, and will be extracted to a `.css` file during production builds.

### Server

This starter kit comes packaged with an Koa server. It's important to note that the sole purpose of this server is to provide `webpack-dev-middleware` and `webpack-hot-middleware` for hot module replacement. Using a custom Koa app in place of [webpack-dev-server](https://github.com/webpack/webpack-dev-server) makes it easier to extend the starter kit to include functionality such as API's, universal rendering, and more -- all without bloating the base config.

### Production Optimization

Babel is configured to use [babel-plugin-transform-runtime](https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-plugin-transform-runtime) so transforms aren't inlined. Additionally, in production, we use [react-optimize](https://github.com/thejameskyle/babel-react-optimize) to further optimize your React code.

In production, webpack will extract styles to a `.css` file, minify your JavaScript, and perform additional optimizations such as module deduplication.

## Learning Resources

TODO: post some links to blog posts / references once we write them
* [Starting out with react-redux-starter-kit](https://suspicious.website/2016/04/29/starting-out-with-react-redux-starter-kit/) is an introduction to the components used in this starter kit with a small example in the end.
